Document why our RFC process is public (#18)
dxw/tech-team-rfcs: rfc-018-our-decision-making-process-is-public.md

as a formal decision so has become an RFC.

## Problem

This repository started as public by default but do we agree that this is right
in this case?

Reasons for:

- dxw values include being honest and we agree with the
[principle of making things open as it makes things better](https://www.gov.uk/guidance/government-design-principles#make-things-open-it-makes-things-better)
- [the dxw playbook is public](http://playbook.dxw.com) and has not caused us
concern or prevented us from iterating it
- others can learn from us and spend more their time making things better for
users
- it allows us to share our thinking and rationale on our technical decisions,
doing so publicly as well as privately can increase trust and empathy with more
people
- with the potential for the world watching the bar is raised
  being open from the start ensures that there is less risk to us should a
  future team decide to make it public
- most of the application code we write lives in open source repositories where
our work and decision making process can already be viewed publicly

Reasons against:

- parts of our discussion make have to include commercially sensitive
 information eg. incident reports

> - as the public can read the team may feel too uncomfortable to contribute to

Reviewer: Still relevant @tahb

>  discussions making it harder to talk with candour

Reviewer: There is an additional one in that, deciding to make this private at a later date will likely be in response to something happening that we consider to be too sensitive to discuss in public. Therefore, making this repository private is in itself information leaking.

Author: I'm afraid I don't follow.

Reviewer: This repository is public. If it becomes private (and therefore disappears for other users), someone could infer that we had something happen that meant we needed to make this repository private to discuss it.

Author: Thanks for re-explaining. I can see that making it private in future could leak the information to the public that there was now content we deemed sensitive in it. The negative outcome for this could be that the private repo could then become a target for people to glean information from?

I've added a point to that affect but if I've missed the mark again I'm happy to update it.

It's difficult to change our mind if we start from a private repository.

Contributors are aware of the context in which they add their comments. If
 they make comments under the context of a private repository which then
 becomes public, there is a potential risk for us to make content that was
 not intended or written in a way appropriate for public consumption.
 Therefore starting from a private repository and later deciding to make
 it a public one will be incredibly difficult to do safely. By starting with
 a public repository however, we always have the safe and easy option of
  making private open to us.

## Proposal

We SHOULD NOT make this repository private.

We SHOULD promote sensitive discussions from GitHub into our regular

>  tech-forums. Here we will discuss the issue in a private forum and we MUST

Reviewer: I disagree that tech forums are the place to have those discussions. Part of the point of using RFCs was to make it easier for people who are not always able to attend those forums to be involved in the decision-making process. Can we rephrase this to just refer to taking the discussion to a more private channel without be strict about it being the forum?

Reviewer 2: Makes sense to me.

Reviewer: Still relevant @tahb.

>   publish a safe summary of the discussion to allow voting to continue as

Reviewer: ```suggestion
publish a summary of the discussion with as much detail as is appropriate for public consumption to allow voting to continue as
```

Reviewer: Still relevant @tahb.

   normal with adequate reference.

> We SHOULD have a retrospectives on how the team have found making decisions

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We SHOULD have retrospectives on how the team have found making decisions
```

>  in public.

Reviewer: How frequently? Is there a maximum time that we feel comfortable setting? At least once every 6 months?

Author: I agree we should be thinking about time so that it is actionable however I'm not sure the RFC is responsible for capturing how we implement this. Perhaps a next step should be to schedule one for 6 months time.

> We MAY wish to make it private later if we retrospectively find that these

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We MAY wish to make it private later if we find that these
```

>  concerns cannot be addressed using retrospectives and tech forums.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 concerns cannot be addressed while this repository is public.
```

# Our decision making process is public

## Summary

Our process of making decisions and the decisions themselves may be read by
all staff and members of the public.

This topic has previously been [debated as an issue](https://github.com/dxw/tech-team-rfcs/issues/2)
on this repository. The decision to take no action should still be persisted
as a formal decision so has become an RFC.

## Problem

This repository started as public by default but do we agree that this is right
in this case?

Reasons for:

- dxw values include being honest and we agree with the
  [principle of making things open as it makes things better](https://www.gov.uk/guidance/government-design-principles#make-things-open-it-makes-things-better)
- [the dxw playbook is public](https://github.com/dxw/playbook) and has not

>  caused us concern or prevented us from iterating it

Reviewer: Nit pick if you're back editing this file again:

```suggestion
  caused us concern or prevented us from iterating it
```

> - others can learn from us and spend more their time making things better for

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- others can learn from us and spend more of their time making things better for
```

  users
- it allows us to share our thinking and rationale on our technical decisions,
  doing so publicly as well as privately can increase trust and empathy with
  more people
- with the potential for the world watching, the bar is raised.

>   being open from the start ensures that there is less risk to us should a

Reviewer 3: Should this be a new bullet?

Reviewer: I _think_ it's a continuation of the previous point. Probably could do with a captial letter.

  our work and decision making process can already be viewed publicly

Reasons against:

- parts of our discussion may have to include commercially sensitive
  information eg. incident reports
- as the public can read the team may feel too uncomfortable to contribute to
  discussions making it harder to talk with candour
- making this repository private at a later date for security reasons might in
  itself be an information leak. The repository could then become a target for
  bad actors trying to access sensitive information on our incidents

It's difficult to change our mind if we start from a private repository.

Contributors are aware of the context in which they add their comments. If
 they make comments under the context of a private repository which then
 becomes public, there is a potential risk for us to make content that was
 not intended or written in a way appropriate for public consumption.
 Therefore starting from a private repository and later deciding to make
 it a public one will be incredibly difficult to do safely. By starting with
 a public repository however, we always have the safe and easy option of

>   making private open to us.

Reviewer: Indentation on here's a bit odd. Another nitpick if you're back in here. Not a blocker for merging.
